Hello everyone and welcome to the forum validation lecture and this lecture are going to be discussing
hidden fields and how we can use them for custom field validation that we or form is currently set up
in our previous project.
It's actually pretty open not only to users who maybe misused a form or give bad information but also
potentially to bots that is automated scripting programs that come in and fill junk information into
your form on your Web site Django has actually built in validators you can conveniently use to validate
your forms not just for user misbehavior but also for bots and everything we do here is going to be
limited to the forms that PI file.
So instead of going through the concepts in slides we're going to jump straight into coding at all out
and we'll use the basic app from the previous lecture so you can either just download that from the
notes or if you work along to the previous solution lecture have it ready to go.
OK we'll do three main tasks here.
We'll add a check for empty fields we'll add a check for a bot and then we'll show you how to use a
clean method for the entire form.
OK let's hop over to the editor and let's get started.
OK.
Here you have the editor open.
I have the forms that PI file that was under basic app for your application.
Remember we have three basic inputs the name the e-mail and the text.
And over here on the right I have a browser that's connected to my local host.
Right now I'm actually not running the server so let's check it out.
Going to say Python managed up PI runs server enter and I can see that servers here so let's refresh
this page and then it says Welcome to the home page from last time.
And let's type in slash form page go to it.
Here you see the name email and text.
So again remember if I type in a name type in some email type in some text and they hit submit actually
get it printed out to the consul name email and text.
Now let's start off by looking at how we can use hidden fields.
Now a hidden field is something that remains in the HTML that is actually hidden from the user.
And a lot of times we can actually use these to try to catch malicious bots on our Web site and I'm
going to collapse the directory here.
So we get a little more space and let's create a field called bot catcher we'll call forms.
It'll be a character field and will pass in the requirements or required parameter to be false.
And the reason we want to specify that required is equal to false is because when we actually have this
field it's not going to show up on the page for the user it's only in the temple in the background so
we actually need to inspect the page so you can see that bug catcher exists.
Now we'll show that in just a moment.
And then the next thing we want to do is find what widget we're using.
So the widget parameter is going to be from forms and instead of a text area or a checkbox or something
like that we're going to be using a hidden input and that's what is going to allow us to hide this from
a typical human user.
And you can also give a label here.
We won't need to do that.
So it's actually just close that off.
Those are the only two parameters we need.
So if I save this and my page reloads if I refresh and let's actually say ansible submit one more time
refresh it continue.
And I'm going to inspect the page and in the elements actually that need to check that the styles would
collapse that I expand the body says fill out the form.
I expand the form and I see not just my C S R F member that token but if I expand this I also see that
I have this but Katcher input.
So remember that the SRF that's also helping the security of your website.
You can see it actually has this basically a random code value that's randomly generated for the user
site and jiggles going to check that matches on the backend.
And that's just an extra layer of security to make sure that the input you put on the form isn't going
to some other web site or vice versa.
Now the input that we just made was bug catcher which is given the I.D. automatically ID underscore
ratcatcher.
It's given the name back catcher and the type is hidden and basically it's going to going to happen
here is if a bot visits your page they will not look at the actual Web site.
What they're going to try to do is look directly into the T.M. and then they're going to try to automatically
fill in value attributes and then submit the form that way.
Now if I am actually acting like a bot I would say add an attribute actually add an attribute here and
the bot would come in at a value and say
hello friends.
Maybe they give you that value.
You hit submit.
And right now the way it's working.
Nothing is really happening here.
So again bear that in.
Hit submit.
You can see my extra characters are being added.
So just to prove that one more time if I type Z Z it shows up here the way we want to actually catch
the bot is by validating this particular input.
So let's show you how to do that now so I'll show you first the most basic method of validation which
is using a clean function or a clean method inside of your class form and then later we'll show you
the built in tools that Django has.
You don't have to do this every time so every time you want to create your own custom validator using
this default method you need to say d f.
So a method inside this class.
These are the keyword clean underscore and then whatever name of the field you're checking.
In this case it's but catcher.
So you can just copy and paste that.
So then jingoes going to automatically look for methods inside this class that start with clean underscore
and then see if this matches any of the fields there remembers a feel inside of a class so you self.
And then this is what should be a colon.
OK.
So and So what I'm going to do first I will say but Katcher is equal to self dot and then I'm going
to call the clean data.
And actually grab what but Katcher return over here from my forms and then I'm going to check if the
links.
But Katcher is greater than zero.
It could also just say if length by Katcher but this might be a little easier to read which means so
if there's any actual length to the value that's a return and by catcher that they know some robot came
in and scraped the page and fill the needs.
Tim L A human would never actually do that.
And then we're going to say raise an air and there's lots of different areas you can raise and you won't
really have to worry about memorizing any of this because we'll move on to builtin validators.
But just to give you an idea the most basic when you're going to raise is a validation.
Kind of makes sense.
And then we have something we can return which are reprinted the cons. And we'll say Gotcha.
So I want to raise the air will return like Hatra itself.
So we save that it's reloaded here since we made a change.
And now let's try coming to this again.
So go to the home page and then go to the Forum page.
We're going to fill out the form.
So the name will say Mr. Robot the e-mail can say it's Elliott.
Evil core.
And then we'll say hello is the text and then if you're a bot what you're going to do is you'll come
to this.
But catcher since Remember you're actually filling in all in three days Tim.
And let's add an attribute here for the value no label it's sneaky since it's a sneaky bot trying to
ruin your Web site.
We hit submit and then we see what happens over here.
Nothing actually got returned so we never actually printed anything.
Because we end up raising that validation there so identify it submit here and actually end up returning
anything.
So again nothing's being printed out into the console because we're raising the validation error and
if you actually look at the page the error has been out put it on the page it says hidden in field but
catcher.
Gotcha.
So instead of actually printing out this user information name email and text we ended up actually grabbing
that bot.
Great.
So that's the very basics of how you can use a clean underscore method instead of your form to do your
own validation.
But now let's show you how you would more realistically use validation once you're building your own
web sites using jingoes built in validators OK let's continue by moving on to jingoes core builtin validators
which will save you a lot of work in the future.
So pretty much you'll never really do this clean underscore.
But Katcher validation.
Instead what you're going to and that do doing is using the jing of course I will say from Jingo that
core import.
And then you're going to import validators.
So save that and then we are going to be doing is in your actual fields here you will passen a validators
parameter so will say validators is equal to.
And this is where we actually can pass in a list of validators.
So what I'm doing is calling validators dots and then you can check the documentation.
But there are a ton of already built in validators things like checking what's the maximum length of
the input how many characters it has etc. and what we can do.
Say you're one of the built in ones.
So what are the built in ones.
Is Max length validator.
So that's a builtin method off of this validators.
And what we can do is then just passen as a parameter a number here.
And typically you'd want whatever the max length is a lot of times going to be 0 to check especially
for a bot.
Right.
So basically we replaced all the work we just did with a simple import call import validators and then
in all these fields you can always pasan a validators parameter and this can take in a list of alday.
So it's not just limited to one can pass in more than one.
So we can save that and then we're going to end up doing is running this again.
So we'll come here and then I'm going to refresh the page so early that go back to the home page and
then come back to form page.
Fill out the form that really matter what we do.
X x at gmail dot com x over here Athas matter.
And then let's go in and do the bot again.
So I will add an attribute value is equal to fulled.
Make sure that matches hit enter and then Lisk hit submit.
And no a Happens hit and field bug catcher and then we actually see jingoes built in validator message
come back and sure this value has at most zero characters it has 6.
Great.
So you can see that Django already has even more information built in as a report back.
OK so hopefully you see that this is way easier to use than that clean method we had.
All right.
Now that we've discussed jingoes builtin validators Let's talk about how you can make your own custom
validators using the same sort of methodology of passing in a validators parameter.
Imagine we wanted to check for the name field that it sort of started with a Z.
We wanted to really make sure that for whatever reason the names had a start of a Z.
Well maybe you didn't bother checking the documentation or can find anything for your specific validation
of starting of a z.
Or if a character starts for a certain letter.
So we end up doing it.
If you want to create your own pasan as a validators parameter you just create a function outside of
the class and then you can name the function.
So I will call this check for Z and the thing here is to make sure is that it takes in value and is
the keywords going to help Django realize that this is going to act as a validator.
All say if value whatever's returned here for this field in this case we're going to check for Zeese
will say if value at 0 is not equal to the character Z and we can do further is do like lower here will
raise and air raise forms.
Validation error and say something like needs to start with the O.S. name.
Just to make it clear save that and then inside this theme.
What I can end up doing is saying validators is equal to and pass on a list and then just pass and my
check receive function which since it takes in value Shingo knows it's a validator now so I will save
this and let's make sure that my run server actually got real fast.
I will refresh that.
OK perfect.
So now we're here.
What I'm going to do save form page and then let's fill out the form first we'll fill out just Jose
you Miller and some junk it submit and it says name to start wizzy perfect so we know our own custom
validation is working let's make sure it is by passing and just Z here and then we'll say the same thing.
And it took it in just fine.
And it printed it out just fine.
All right.
So that is how you can make your own custom validation function.
And this is usually a lot easier of an approach to take than that clean method we discussed earlier.
OK.
Now let's continue our discussion by talking about cleaning the entire form all at once.
So we did see how we could create custom clean methods in our class for particular fields that we sometimes
just want to do.
One method that cleans the entire field and you don't want to worry about having to do something like
an individual validator.
So what do you do in that case.
Well let's delete this check for Z.
I'm going to remove this validator over here.
We'll save that and we can check for but catcher that's fine actually you know we don't actually need
that.
Let's say we wanted to check something like a backup e-mail.
So a lot of times when you go to a Web site you have to fill out your name and then fill out your email
and then you have to verify your email you have to fill it in twice which makes sense because you don't
want to have happen as you log into a page for the very first time or you're signing up that you mistype
your email.
Otherwise there's no way you'll ever get a message to that e-mail.
So we can call what's a very common field as verify email and this is something you'll see often richer
if you use the Internet.
Once you've seen this and we'll have varify field and we're just going to give this a label to say something
like Well that should be equal sorry.
And I'll say
to your e-mail again.
So let's save that and let's refresh the page to make sure that actually works that continue.
OK perfect so this field is required for e-mail again and you can use formatting and aged him to make
this all look nice since I'm asking for paragraph.
Everything is kind of going in there a line break.
But again this would all be done with HTL or C styling.
Right now what we really care about is how do we clean this entire form at once to actually grab the
c.m. grab the second e-mail and make sure they actually match.
Well just like we had the special clean method where you say clean underscore in the name of the field
you want to check if you want to clean the entire form.
All you do is just say clean and that will indicate the jingo that this is just a single clean method
for the entire form at once.
And what you can do here is call super.
You know what this is going to do is grab all the clean data at once.
So we'll type a new variable.
Call it all clean data and then we call super close parentheses and then off of that you call the clean
method and it's going to return all your clean data for the entire forms.
You can deal it all at once and then off of this you can grab certain fields souls say email is equal
to that all clean data and then say using Brecken notation because it's basically a dictionary grab
the email field where this key comes from up here and then we also want to grab varify email so say
well call it the email or verify email.
Again it's the all clean data and I want to grab the varify email key and then what I am going to do
is say if my email is not equal to my verify email I will raise an error so I'll raise a validation
there forms validation for an error and say whatever so make sure emails match.
Probably don't want to yell at the user.
Not all uppercase but it's fine for our purposes.
And in this case we don't actually need to return everything.
If the clean runs and everything works that's totally fine.
We don't need to return.
OK so let's actually run this on our page.
I'm going to run my server again because I cleared it here hear say Python managed up high run server
enter make sure it's running here.
Perfect.
I'm going to refresh this page and then when I'm going to do is call the form page.
So here you see my name email.
Enter your email again is the label text.
So I'll say my name is Jose and we're actually going to do a non-matching email first.
So I'll say that.
Well let's say a at gmail dot com and then B at gmail dot com.
So two different e-mails enter some text here for hit submit.
I get back make sure e-mails match.
So it's cleaning the entire data form and you can do whatever you want.
Walter Fields from data forms adults make sure these match.
If I say Jose a and then hit it looks like it's good and it actually prints out my name my e-mail and
text which means there were no errors.
All right.
That's the very basics.
And some more advanced features of how to actually custom validate your forms.
So again you can call your own custom clean underscore method to check just a simple field you can use
the built in validators enjoying 0 which is what I would recommend you do.
And if you ever want to clean the entire form at once and do all your operations there then you can
use def clean and that will clean out the entire form.
And remember whenever you're creating your own custom validators you want to make sure you passing the
keyword value before you pass it.
Here it's one of these fields.
All right.
Do you have any questions.
Definitely post the Q&A forums and I would definitely suggest if you plan on using this in the future
to check out the documentation page for jingoes validators has a lot of useful information there as
well as a ton of more examples in case you want to see more.
Thanks everybody and I'll see you the next lecture.